---
date: 2021-06-02T11:56:13.000+00:00
title: May 2021 Reading
games:
- _games/aether-operations.md
- _games/mausritter.md

---
I shared my [March](https://twitter.com/jdbannister/status/1377353349310242819 "@jdbannister's reading in March") and [April](https://twitter.com/jdbannister/status/1388403472631013376 "@jdbannister's reading in April")'s reading on Twitter. Now I'm gonna share it here.

## Books

[**How Do You Live?**](https://uk.bookshop.org/a/6818/9781846046452 "How Do You Live? by Genzaburo Yoshino on Bookshop.org") **by Genzaburo Yoshino** — A pleasant story about a young boy in Japan in the 30s. The reading was gentle and held a low level of interest, but it became much more meaningful as I learned more about the context Yoshino was writing in from Bruno Navasky's translator's notes.

[**No One Is Talking About This**](https://uk.bookshop.org/a/6818/9781526629760 "No One Is Talking About This by Patricia Lockwood on Bookshop.org") **by Patricia Lockwood** — Of course it reads like tweets to start with, Lockwood is a master of that form. Here she collides that overwhelming digital world against a real life that cannot be distracted from. I loved it.

[**The Employees**]() **by Olga Ravn** — What's it like working on a space ship with androids? And realising everything about your existence is in support of your employer? A wealth of interesting ideas in here. Perfect inspiration for sci-fi workplace adventuring.

## Games

[**The Vast In The Dark**](https://feral-indie-studios.itch.io/vast-in-the-dark "The Vast in the Dark by Feral Indie Studio on Itch.io") **by Feral Indie Studio** — A really evocative setting full of brutalist grey. Probably an excellent excursion, but the overwhelming sense of despair means you probably want an exit from it into another world. And a personal frustration that the origins of brutalist architecture are more around building community but they're still used as a shorthand for alienation.

[**Mausritter**](https://mausritter.com "Masuritter by Losing Games") **by Losing Games** — Come be a mouse with me and we'll explore villages in tree stumps and fight off marauding cats. I love this game. It achieves a really simple gameplay experience and is one of those worlds which is relatable enough to freely play in without needing any further context. Just pretend to be tiny in your garden!

[**Aether Operations**](https://floatingchair.club/products/aether-operations-preorder "Aether Operations by Floating Chair Club") **by Floating Chair Club** — One folded piece of paper taking you through the oddest adventure game. Reclaiming mundane relics in the realms of meat, bone, brain and spirit. I don't know how to play this and I don't know what it would look like if anyone did. But you really can do anything with games.

[**Brutal Quest**](https://mammoth-miniatures.onlineweb.shop/Brutal_Quest/p6748004_21082888.aspx "Brutal Quest by Mammoth Miniatures") **by Mammoth Miniatures** — Took a wild foray into wargaming and was a little disappointed. I have nothing to compare this to so can't really rate this as a wargaming ruleset itself, but it just seems to have all the measuring and calculating I got bored of with D&D.

[**Cities of the Dying Land**](https://reverendunclebastard.itch.io/cities-of-the-dying-land "Cities of the Dying Lang by Reverend Uncle Bastard on Itch.io") **by Reverend Uncle Bastard** — A pamphlet of random prompts and inspiration. When I make my own clothbound custom GM screen, there will be a little pocket specifically sized to fit this.

The month was light on books but heavier on games. I felt the need to get through my pile! But there is still a long list to go!